This is a video I actually once recorded and am now re-recording, because basically Shu on
Head did her stream on Sargon last night, and if I'm going to be honest about this topic I'm going
to have to incorporate some of what she said into the original script. And the original script
started something like this. Sargon and Shu are both wrong. And they're wrong in different ways
for different reasons, but they're both wrong. For those of you who don't know this is about
some ongoing drama and I'll have the videos for both of them linked in the description if you
want to go back and check it out for yourself. Now when watching those previous videos I realized
that Sargon believes he has stayed exactly the same in terms of his overall political views and
his principles, while Shu has spun off radically left into communism. Meanwhile Shu says she's
stayed the same in her principles, while Sargon is going far right. This is the progression of
Sargon's political compass. I know it looks like shit, I pulled it off of his videos. As you can
see back in 2015 he was libertarian left of center and now he is libertarian right of center. And
here's Shu's political compass. In 2015 she was libertarian left of center and now she is
significantly more libertarian and significantly more left. What's interesting is that when you
look at both of these you realize that they started in the same place, and it's probably
why they were such good friends in 2014 and 2015. But after the massive reorientation of the
political landscape, due to basically Brexit and Trump in 2016, you can see they both shifted. And
it looks like they both shifted in about an equal measure, which is probably why they both believe
the other person has changed wildly while they haven't changed at all. The actual truth is they've
both changed an equal amount. Oh by the way just for comparison's sake this is my political compass.
The blue is where I would have been had this this test existed back in like 2007,
and the red is where I have been for nearly the past decade. Now some people would say that the
fact that I've stayed where I am for as long as I have means that I'm still living in the past or
I'm stagnant or something. However I don't think so. I think it's that I've done a lot of reading
and I've come into some very firmly held beliefs that aren't going to be swayed by the politics of
the day. But we've got Shue talking about how Sargon is now far right and Sargon is talking
about how Shue is far left. And I think to really get a grip on the situation we have to ask the
question, what is the left? Because there are sometimes people who tell me that I'm far right
or I'm right wing or something. Then I ask them, well okay what do you think the left is? Like what
do you think the left edge on the center is? What is the right most political opinion that is still
on the left that you can hold? And these people almost inevitably say dismantling capitalism.
Which means that they they have to think that Shuan heads social democrat policies of keeping
capitalism intact but using taxation to maintain a broad safety net. Which by the way are also my
ideal policies. Those people have to think that that's right wing somehow because capitalism's
still intact. Meanwhile people on the right have called me an actual communist because of my
support for those social safety nets. And I know that like left and right changes based on the
Overton window. I know for example the serfs called me right wing because even though I held
positions that were leftist 20 years ago I haven't changed. And they believe that history is supposed
to go more leftward over time which just it just isn't the case. So it really sounds like left and
right are too nebulous to be used. However I think I've come to the root of the problem. The left
right political spectrum came out of the French revolution and its original meaning was in
relation to hierarchy. At this time the right wing believed that hierarchy was innately destructive
while at the same time being inevitable. So the point of human politics was to understand and
accept the natural hierarchies of the world but to not create any more man-made hierarchies than
were absolutely necessary. This is why you had both your small government types as well as your
monarchists and loyalists on the right because they believed that the monarchy was a hierarchy
of the natural world wherein divine right came from god and so the hierarchy was god kings nobles
and peasants. The left wing meanwhile had a different relationship with hierarchy. They
believed hierarchy was just as destructive as the right wing did however they believed that hierarchy
could be tamed by human intervention. While the right wing did not believe in constructing a
man-made hierarchy because hierarchy itself was destructive the left wing believed that if humans
could replace natural hierarchies with man-made hierarchies they could control them for people's
wider benefit. Their philosophy was not to avoid hierarchy because it's destructive but to harness
hierarchy and make it constructive. This had the strange effect of not only having the monarchists
the anarchists and the proto-libertarians all on the right wing but also the socialists and
the fascists on the left wing because both socialism and fascism seek to create a centralized
planned society which is completely in line with the 1800s leftist philosophy of replacing
natural hierarchy with man-made hierarchy and although it sounds very strange to us nowadays
because on the modern left-right political spectrum we put fascism as far right but George
Valois France's first fascist of any note began his political career as an anarcho-syndicalist.
He viewed fascism as left-wing and as coming out of his own experiences with socialism and he saw
fascism as the natural extension and inheritor of the Jacobin movement from the late 1700s. The
Jacobins were one of the most radically left-wing revolutionary groups within the French Revolution.
They were a group of working-class Paris citizens that played vital roles during the French
Revolution. Of course the modern conception of the left and the right has completely lost
all of this nuance mainly because after it became popularized within the French Republic
the Americans picked it up and as the Americans like to do they completely watered it down beyond
any and all actual meaning. Thanks America. So now modern day political discourse is basically just
shit flinging over who's left who's right who's far left who's far right no you're actually the
radical one no you're actually the radical one when most of it is just a complete misunderstanding
however not all of it and this is where we actually talk about the specific things where
Sargon and Shu are wrong. During Shu's stream she mentioned she didn't understand the link between
communism and woke shit and I don't think Sargon did a very good job at explaining it necessarily
so maybe I can do it in in more layman's terms. I don't understand her objection to woke politics
without also not being a communist. Now he's like I don't understand how you can reject woke shit
and also not be a communist where the fuck did that come from I thought the entire thing was
we are on the left but we're bothered by some things on the left. Woke shit is the application
of Marxist theory to vectors of oppression beyond simply class. Now Shu says that he doesn't mind
being called a class justice warrior and there is definitely this idea among some elements of
the left that there is no war but class war however if you take Marxist theory and apply it
to the social sphere rather than the economic one you get identity politics you get woke shit you
get intersectionality in fact if you take like a women's studies class in university one of the
first things you learn is that the Marxist conception of class and class warfare is simply
one bar on the cage of intersectionality alongside race and gender and sexual orientation
and all these other things. It is very easy to see how woke shit is the natural end result of
Marxist theory. Shu also said in her stream that she doesn't see the problem with socialism even
though she's not a socialist herself. The people who think socialism is some like authoritarian
thing it's not um and so when they think of that they think of like the tankies they think of like
Stalin and all that shit and it scares them and I think that's where these people are coming from
but they're completely different ideologies. And the honest truth is no socialism is just as bad
as fascism for multiple reasons. Firstly if you read the theory and I have I have read the theory
you know I have read Das Kapital uh if you read the theory you can you understand that the
political system and the economic system can't really be disentangled. Comparing Nazis to
socialists is like not valid at all at all no workers rights and shit like that compared to
people who want like racial purity and all this shit are completely two completely completely
different things and dev keeps doing it like I'm friends with dev but he keeps conflating
the socialists to the Nazis. Socialism isn't the government does shit socialism is not workers
rights it's not health care socialism isn't an intact capitalism with safety nets socialism is
property expropriation it is seizing the means of production and you know I get it the old Marxist
conception required a revolution it was going to require a violent uprising of the worker to steal
all of this property and there are new versions of socialism you know you you read your Chomsky
you see the libertarian socialists out there and it's not going to require a violent revolution
guys we're just going to vote it you know you're democratic socialists you're libertarian socialist
you're just going to vote yourself property well that is still fundamentally tyrannical because
let's say you own a business and let's say you've hired some workers and the workers all say okay
we're going to vote that we own your business now and the owner says no fuck off I founded it
you know however many years ago it was I was working on it before I hired any of you
there is no good reason why you should own it simply because you work here and at that point
the democratic socialism the libertarian socialism completely falls apart because either you have to
give up and go home or you're going to have to use violence to take the property now maybe that
state-backed violence and if that's the case you're going to become the Soviet Union a whole
lot faster maybe it's union-based violence maybe it's a grassroots uprising by the workers but all
of these things are still theft and they're all going to lead to an authoritarian state like I've
read Chomsky I had to read him in school I know you don't want to hear this because he's well
regarded among the left he's considered an intellectual people love this guy but when it
comes to his libertarian socialism if ever seriously put into practice it will end up
like its authoritarian brother because you will always have to use extreme amounts of force
to make people play along with it and this is coming from a former Chomsky fan man I had stars
in my eyes about him once too until I decided to read all theory not just socialist theory
in the same way she was also wrong about fascism and I know people are like wait
but nazis were socialist yes because Germany was socialist or well they were you know they
had like health care and shit like that so yeah nazis were they were they adopted the socialist
thing because that was what was popular at the time like to get into power no the fascists did
not simply use socialist rhetoric until they got into power you're probably referencing here
Hitler's 25-point plan which was put up by the Nazi party I think in 1923 and it had a lot of
socialist points on it like it talked about old age welfare it talked about uh care for the middle
and lower classes it talked about the expropriation of land for the purposes of public utility
it talked about outlawing child labor and education programs and things like this this was
not simply a ruse on behalf of the fascists these are actually core components of fascist policy
because again due to the old conception of the left and its relation to hierarchy this is a topic
another video but a lot of people on the left believe that liberal and fascist economics are
identical because they're both capitalist and that's just not the case there actually is a
distinct fascist theory of economics separate from both liberalism and socialism but again that's
another topic for another time I mean there is a reason why in the doctrine of fascism
Mussolini wrote about his political opponents including socialists being reactionaries or how
they wanted to seize the means of production and it was not simply co-opting their language
there's something deeper there and I know where you get this definition of fascism it's where all
of bread tube gets the definition of fascism that they use it's from omberto eco's your fascism
essay and I had the displeasure of reading omberto eco even before I became a youtuber I think in the
class where I read the essay or fascism my political science professor said there's a reason why eco
is known outside of italy for his novels and not his political analysis the 14 points presented
in our fascism are so ridiculously broad that any authoritarianism fascism or otherwise can meet
this criteria even some non-authoritarians can meet this criteria and if this list is how people
on the left identify fascism it is no wonder that they see fascists everywhere it's no wonder that
you think trump is a fascist and frankly trump's not a fascist he's just an idiot eco's work in
terms of political science is considered like the opposite of the gold standard when it comes
to identifying a fascist if you want an actual coherent definition of fascism there's frederick
hayek's the road to serfdom or roger griffin's the nature of fascism or if you just really like
the idea of a checklist you can just run down and mark off very simply check out emilio gentile's
the sacralization of politics I've read these works I've read ur fascism admittedly it's been
a while it was back when I was still in university taking political science but I've read this stuff
and guess what by all those other metrics trump isn't a fascist why the fuck do we know everything
about them but they know nothing about us why the fuck do we use all their correct labels this one's
a libertarian this one's a neo-con this one's a classical liberal this one's a nationalist
and they just turn around and call whole ass libs commies now maybe it's because I consider myself
at least slightly left of center here but I can in fact tell the differences between all the
different flavors of leftism and I do think sargon is wrong to call them all communism there's an
obvious difference between the tankies and the anarcho communists and the anarcho syndicalists
and the libertarian socialists and the social democrats and so on and so forth and you can't
simply boil them all down to just straight communism because frankly communism is the
theorized stateless moneyless classless society that exists after socialism has been perfectly
implemented which is itself a wildly reductionary point of view however the problem with all of
these different flavors of leftism is that once you cross the threshold into property expropriation
like I said earlier they all turn out the same way to take property from those who don't want it
stolen and to legitimize that taking beyond simple thievery you will need some kind of totalitarian
state apparatus it doesn't matter if you call yourself an anarcho communist or whatever the
anarcho part is ultimately meaningless it will by necessity be washed aside in the pursuit of
your own goals all forms of socialism libertarian or not will eventually become the soviet union
the only difference is how long it takes for you to get there all this being said sargon's not
perfect either like I mentioned not everything on the left is simple communism there are in fact
socialists who simply want to be socialists they don't want to advance to the next stage which is
communism they want to implement a socialist society and then stay in a socialist society
i don't agree with them because that would ultimately be tyrannical and would lead to
something that looks a lot like fascism however you can't call them communist because that's not
what they are and that's not what they believe moreover just like how shu says she hasn't shifted
when she actually has sargon you've shifted too you keep calling yourself a liberal but frankly
i don't think you are anymore i think you're a conservative and i'm not using that word in a
negative way at all i don't have a natural knee-jerk reaction to hate conservatives
like a lot of people do you know this yourself you know it better than me that conservatism as
a political tradition comes out of liberalism they are two sides of the same coin the liberals
not in terms of like the mimetic way that the term is used like how the left refers to the libs
or the right refers to the libs but the actual political philosophy of liberalism it starts at
the same premise as conservatism their difference is not on whether or not the state should be
overthrown or whether democracy should disappear or anything along those lines the difference is
in the minutia of how the system works but they both start from the same premise that the system
is fundamentally good that the nation and the culture in which you inhabit is worth preserving
on some level the conservatives want to conserve the liberals want to liberate but both still
within that framework of the night watchman state and sometimes the liberals are correct for a given
situation sometimes the conservatives are so it's not like i'm using the term conservative as a slur
i just think at this point sargon that is where you fall politically it's not bad it's not evil
it's not wrong it's just you and i don't blame you i mean you're a dad now you've got a son and
a daughter and i know that you're trying for more so like who's not going to become a conservative
under those conditions it's not bad it's not wrong it's just what it is and speaking of kids
yes we're going to have to talk about the whole women have a duty to have kids thing i'm pretty
sure you phrase it that way because you want to trigger people primarily and you know fair enough
it can be funny sometimes because i also know that you think that men have a duty to have kids it's
not just women but what you're appealing to here fundamentally is the duty to contribute to a
society that has brought you up and fair enough i just don't think that having children is the
only way that you can do that and to be honest i think the capitalist conception of things works
quite well if you have money that means you've performed labor or if you're an investor you've
taken on risk but for most people it means you've performed labor and that labor is itself your
contribution if you can pay for something that means that you have contributed enough so that
you may have it you do not need to have kids in order to justify buying your house or paying your
grocery bill or whatever it is fundamentally you should have kids because you want to have kids
because that's what you want to do with your life and your time and your energy we already know how
bad it can be when people who don't want kids have kids how it ruins the parents life how it
definitely ruins the child's life it's only a contribution if you want them because if you
want them then you're going to raise them right and of course the problem with using the word duty
is that most people don't understand i understand but most people don't understand that duty is not
something that you're forced to do a duty is something that you voluntarily pick up so when
you say something like you have a duty to have children that doesn't mean that you want the state
to force you to have children it means that you have a duty and you can choose not to fulfill that
duty it is a voluntary burden which is the difference between duty and responsibility
where responsibility is not voluntary when you have a responsibility you have to do that thing
when you have a duty you should do that thing so i see what you're saying but and this has also been
a pretty consistent problem i think is that sargon you often don't properly unpack your
points another instance of this is where you say what is the definition of woman again i know what
you're saying but most people just think you're crazy frankly because your point is the definition
of woman is adult human female it's very simple it's concise and the left does not have a
definition of woman that simultaneously includes trans women and also isn't circular i understand
your point this applies to both the duty thing and the definition of woman thing i think you
forget that you've been doing this for like six years and for most people who are not this deep
into it they kind of need some concepts unpacked first you can't simply spring a question on them
and then watch as they are confused and then you go haha i owned you well no not really unfortunately
the confusion that you're seeing is not them being owned as they struggle to to say something
that actually makes coherent sense but rather it's them thinking you're insane you also said
on a stream recently that you didn't think universal suffrage was the way to go now you
were saying this off hand so maybe you were just i don't know working through an idea and it's not
a firmly held belief or something but your logic was that why should people who not net pay into
the system through taxation have a vote in where those taxes go through democracy and i get what
you're saying but i disagree it's appropriate in the private sector for things to be a little bit
more dictatorial i know that the the left-leaning types the socialists they're not going to like to
hear that but it's the honest truth if you own your property you have the exclusive right to
enjoy that property in any way that you see fit if you own a company you have the exclusive right to
control that company to hire and fire to drive it into the ground if you want to but governments
aren't companies public property is not private property just as there is a private sphere because
not everything is political despite what the left will tell you there is also a public sphere there
is a place where within those boundaries everything is actually political and i do think it's important
that specifically within that zone everyone has their voice heard because everybody has to live
in the country that is created by the government that we vote in it is appropriate for a democratic
government to have universal suffrage for the same reasons that it is appropriate for a company
not to this is the unfortunate nature of being a content mill like crowder or like ben shapiro
or like vosh the serfs and sargon this applies to you too do you recall how christy winters was
viewed a few years ago how basically she would constantly release videos and those videos were
always like worthy of somebody else just putting on while they play a game on a stream or something
and then talking over and laughing at that is what everyone's become including you to an extent
yes vosh and the serfs have become this yes crowder and shapiro have become this
pacman and kolinsky and everyone else and you everyone nowadays seems to be a constantly
producing content mill and all of their opponents simply take that content and create their own
content easy response videos laughs even if they don't actually have any real criticism
and i mean you and i both know you go and watch vosh critiquing anything and there's never any
real criticism there it's usually him like stumbling and going uh what i don't understand
how could you possibly uh like there's nothing really there of substance but it feeds his base
this is not just an optics complaint because i know you don't care about optics and frankly
neither do i it's more like i keep meeting people good people well-intentioned people
and you have too i mean remember our conversation with lilith right who have these preconceptions
about you that are completely wrong and i know they're completely wrong and you know they're
completely wrong but it's because you have allowed people who dislike you to interpret you
uncharitably like yeah four years ago the sjw said you were an ethno nationalist and everyone
could see it wasn't true but the number of people who are saying it now has increased like a hundred
fold and it's all good people who if they knew the truth wouldn't be saying it and in fact i think
ceding ground like this has has been a consistent problem with you and how you operate
i know you it was you i and arch who had that private conversation about compassion
and the nature of compassion and how compassion intersects with politics
and how basically conservatives and in some cases liberals to their detriment
have completely ceded the idea of compassion to the socialists and we like you and i both know
the socialists aren't actually compassionate at all property expropriation is not compassionate
despite how they they claim they want to make the world a better place or redistribute or help the
poor or whatever it is we we both know exactly what they mean by that exactly what will happen
when they do that and it's nothing that that's even remotely related to compassion however the
concept of compassion has been ceded to the far left and frankly i think that's a problem because
i do think it's possible for there to be a compassionate right there's definitely a space
for a compassionate center and i do think that that comes with equal parts self-empowerment
and social assistance where it's needed and where it would be productive but simply hand-waving that
is bleeding heart hippie leftists is not going to help the situation you've always been content to
ignore those people around you who might be working against you and fair enough because
most of the time it's just internet shit it's just gay ops right however i've always said that
it is better to defeat an opponent on their own turf it is better to accept their terms and still
beat them and i know for a fact that is possible with the radical left i know for a fact it's
possible with the socialists in the same vein you and i have had a conversation on where it's
actually appropriate that the government step in into a marketplace and intervene and i laid out
three criteria that you disagreed with but i didn't really understand why i said when something is
rarely used but is universally necessary when it is used and is extremely expensive then the
government has a mandate to step in maybe communalize the service that everyone pays into
a pot and everyone withdraws from it when they need it and ensures that everyone has at least
some access to that service and while that's not going to be as efficient as the free market
it is going to be more fair so for example this works with roads you are not going to use every
single road that your government has built in your country however everyone needs roads and
they are expensive to make so it does make sense that the government enforces some minimum of
standard beyond what the market would bear this logic makes sense for roads it makes sense for
fire and police it makes sense for health care in my opinion but where i break with shu and the
socialists is that i don't think it makes sense for food or for housing because in terms of food
it's not rarely used it's commonly used it is universally necessary and it's not prohibitively
expensive the way that roads or fire or police or health care is and it doesn't work with housing
because unlike those four other examples which are services housing is a good when you buy a
house you have exclusive rights to that house you own that house as property there is nothing
universal about owning a house it is very exclusive in that regard and of course there
are other things that you're both wrong about as well i agree with shu on the whole flag burning
thing i'm worried about trump talking about making it illegal it should not be illegal at all there
are trump simps out there who are saying oh it's only one year no one second in jail is one second
too many for burning a flag at the same time i also understand that your point was lost on shu
because the issue isn't burning the flag the issue is why do they want to burn it and
do they have real grievances and frankly the answer for a lot of them is no a lot of people
that you see rioting out there they're not the working poor they're rich kids sometimes middle
class kids who have been radicalized and are committing violence thinking they're doing
something good simple as that i know that this doesn't apply to shu i know that she's ultimately
a patriot but there is definitely a strain of leftism out there that is very anti-american
and while the flag burning isn't a problem the whole no trump no wall no usa at all mentality
that is behind the flag burning is absolutely a problem and in the same way i think you're
also both wrong about george floyd shu called sargon a fentanyl truther which is in my opinion
ridiculous a police officer kneeling on the neck of a violent person is standard procedure and
almost never actually results in anybody's death and in fact it would not have resulted in george
floyd's death had he not been overdosing on fentanyl at the exact same time this is
indisputable it's in the autopsy you're not a fentanyl truther for saying this but at the same
time you cannot simply believe that the police acted completely appropriately they obviously
didn't the police are first responders they do have a duty of care to those that they arrest
they have a level of responsibility above and beyond that of an average passerby to make sure
that someone doesn't die while in their custody it doesn't matter what george floyd was guilty of
he should have seen his day in court that is where justice is served and yes i've seen the body cam
footage they were struggling with him it was a nasty situation however when they had him on the
ground and he was overdosing their actions absolutely exacerbated the situation and they
are responsible for that anyway that's that for now i know i talked about doing sfo streams those
will probably be starting tomorrow i think this will probably be the um the last video until i
can get a handle on the monetization situation maybe i'll do something else if it strikes me
but like i have several very large video essays planned like on the scale of the chas one that
i'm just gonna hold off on so uh i'll be streaming probably more carrion tonight on twitch if you
want to drop by and i'll be live hopefully tomorrow with some kind of sfo stream so i'll see you there
i love you